---
layout: post
title:  "Additive Blending in Matplotlib"
desc: "A short tutorial on additive blending using matplotlib and numpy."
date: 2016-10-01
categories: [blog]
tags: [matplotlib,python,numpy,visualisation]
icon: fa-bookmark-o
thumb: 'static/img/blog/additive/thumb.jpg'
---

A problem I have encountered several times is how to nicely plot a large amount of data points
in matplotlib and be able to nicely show the density of the data points. The normal method is simple:
just plot the data points with their opacity set down, and then you can see the data points overlap.

The issue I have with this is that at some point after your stack a few data points, you reach `alpha=1` and
then you may as well not both to show any more data points. Here is an example of this, when I simply try
and plot twenty thousand realisations of a simple multivariate normal.


``` python
{% include resources/additive/bad.py %}
```

{% include image.html url="/additive/bad.png"  %}

This leaves a lot to be desired. So what I wanted to do was to implement [additive blending](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blend_modes#Addition),
a technique I use a lot in Photoshop and After Effects. However, search as I might it seems that this
not something that simply comes with matplotlib. [My initial query to StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/33728154/additive-blending-in-matplotlib)
went unanswered, but I did find a similar question [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/26702176/is-it-possible-to-do-additive-blending-with-matplotlib),
and my implementation closely follows this.

So what have to do the additive blending ourselves if we want it, which is a pain. Straightforward,
but a pain nonetheless. Example code is shown below, and hopefully the commenting on it explains
what I am doing sufficiently. The gist of it is that you have to render layers
yourself, stack them manually and then display the final image buffer using `imshow`.

``` python
{% include resources/additive/good.py %}
```

{% include image.html url="/additive/good.png"  %}

Same data points as the first plot, but now not only are the individual data points clearer
overall, even in the dense sections, but we also have a better gauge of the distribution
due to the brighter center.