---
layout: post
title:  "Japan Winter Holiday"
desc: "Tokyo, Kyoto, Hakuba, Sapporo and Otaru"
date: 2017-02-08
categories: [trip]
tags: [trip,international,japan]
icon: fa-bookmark-o
thumb: 'static/img/blog/japan/thumb.jpg'
---

It's good to get away sometimes.

Especially good if you make sure you don't bring a laptop - no 
sneaky working during a holiday!

So in January 2017, I went to Japan. First stop, Mt Fuji.

{% include image.html url="/japan/fuji.jpg"  %}

After Fuji, straight to Kyoto. We went to a few of the shrines,
the Silver and Golden Palaces, and the Fushimi Inari Shrine.

{% include image.html url="/japan/gold.jpg"  %}
{% include image.html url="/japan/flowers.jpg"  %}
{% include image.html url="/japan/orange.jpg"  %}

I didn't quite realise how big the Fushimi Inari Shrine was - its 
not just one or two arches, there are kilometers of them.

We finished up in Kyoto, and travelled back to Tokyo for a day or
two of sightseeing, first going to the (free) government tower
and then to the Tokyo Dome with its shops and amusement rides.

{% include image.html url="/japan/tokyo.jpg"  %}
{% include image.html url="/japan/dome.jpg"  %}

Then off to skiing! Train to Nagano, bus to Hakuba, and we had
the good luck of it snowing the first night we got there,
giving us some beautiful snow to ski on in the morning.

{% include image.html url="/japan/slopes.jpg"  %}

A few days later, and we had had enough snow, so we went to the
Sapporo Snow Festival. Unfortunately, we timed the trip wrong,
and the snow and ice sculptures started being made and unveiled the 
day after we left. So we took a side trip to Otaru, which
also had a winter festival, feature canal lights and lighting up
a derelict railway with snow sculptures.

{% include image.html url="/japan/otaru.jpg"  %}
{% include image.html url="/japan/snowball.jpg"  %}

From Otaru, back to Sapporo, then Tokyo, and then back home.

Was a welcome break from work, but boy was the backlog of emails
a slog to go through!

