---
layout: post
title:  "readr 2017"
desc: "Spreading some open-source love to undergraduate students"
date: 2017-12-14
categories: [outreach]
tags: []
icon: fa-bookmark-o
thumb: 'static/img/blog/readr/thumb.jpg'
---

Nearing the tail end of the year I got a wonderful opportunity 
to expand the work I had been doing with my coding workshops to
also take them to the 2017 readr retreat. readr - a research
education and development retreat - is open to all undergraduate
physics students in Australia, not just astrophysics students.

I had to trim a lot of content as I went from a whole day workshop
to a three hour block with breaks included. I was very uncertain
I would manage to fit the amount of content left in the allocated
time, but for once I got lucky and literally finished on the dot.

One of the activities involved me showing some code, and letting
the students spend five minutes figuring out what on Earth it did,
and then another five minutes trying to figure out everything wrong 
with it. You can see the follow-up slide in the image below, 
highlighting all the issues I deliberately wrote in.

{% include image.html url="/readr/readr3.jpg"  %}

Yes, I do classify still using Python 2 as a critical issue in 
your code.

The session went really well, I am happy to report. And then after
the session the kangaroos came out for an evening graze near our cabins.

{% include image.html url="/readr/readr2.jpg"  %}

I am also very bad at slacklining.

{% include image.html url="/readr/readr1.jpg"  %}
