---
layout: post
title:  "Overland Track - Tasmania"
desc: "Hiking the Overland Track."
date: 2015-01-01
categories: [blog]
tags: [travel]
loc: 'blog/tasmania/'

---

After uni was over one year, Julia told me she was thinking
of doing the overland track in Tasmania. I had heard good things
about the track, and so I decided to tag along!

I got some army rations off my mate Chris, and bought a ton 
of food from the store, loaded up some clothes and tools, threw
them in my hiking back pack, and off we went.

The initial climb and day was marred by wet weather, but still
offered some great views.

{% include image.html url="path.jpg"  %}

The rain continued for several days, periodically turning into 
sleet when it could summon the will power. It did make for some good
photos and plenty of drinking water as we went.

{% include image.html url="pond.jpg"  %}



After camping out in 
one of the huts long enough to dry, we headed off again, this time
down hill into the rainforest.

{% include image.html url="trees.jpg"  %}

After a roller coaster ride of hills, mountains, plateaus, valleys and
streams, the weather decided to clear. And that day it clearer 
was the day we got the opportunity to take a diversion and climb Mt. Ossa,
Tasmania's tallest mountain. It took us a while, but we made it to the
top and even had it all to ourselves.

{% include image.html url="ossa.jpg"  %}

Always the photographer, Julia insisted we try and get pictures 
of ourselves, which just seems odd to me. But she got her wish.

{% include image.html url="pose.jpg"  %}

We left before it got dark, and made it to the next hut. A few more 
days of hiking through steadily drying rain forests we made it to the 
final lake to catch the sunset.

{% include image.html url="main.jpg"  %}

We then caught the ferry over the lake to the stop on the otherside
and jumped on a bus back to Hobart, ending our hike.
