---
layout: post
title:  "Making a utility knife"
desc: "Because going to the shops is too easy."
date: 2017-04-18
categories: [blog]
tags: [hardware]
loc: 'blog/knife/'
---

For a while now I've been meaning to see if I can make something
a bit more useful than my normal projects, and what could be 
more useful than a knife? Well, a lot of things, but most 
things are simply too difficult and require too many tools
I don't have!

{% include image.html url="good11.jpg"  %}


So, in preparation built a gas forge with tons of help from
the guys at QMAC, and then built a simply filing jig to help me out.
Then, with some steel, wood and pins, time to get to work.

Firstly, jotted down a profile which wasn't too horrendous. A thick blade
to make sure I can make multiple mistakes and still have metal left
to work with, and a variety of points, because I wasn't quite sure
what I wanted!


{% include image.html url="good1.jpg"  %}

But no point staring too long at an outline, time to cut it out. An
angle grinder, hacksaw, a file and a dremel made short (not that short)
work of the soft metal. And soon, a profile!

{% include image.html url="good2.jpg"  %}
{% include image.html url="good3.jpg"  %}

So, slap it in the filing jig, set it to about a 10 degree incline, and start
filing away. And keep filing. File until you can't feel your arms. Then file more.
Then stop, when happy, or on the ground weeping.

{% include image.html url="good4.jpg"  %}

So at this point I thought *"Well, the tedius part is done, now it gets easy."*.

Ha.

Time to sand... metal. All those deep groves I accidentally put in there filing...
they all had to go. I went through so much sand paper and WD-40 for lubrication. Had a great time.

{% include image.html url="good5.jpg"  %}

But eventually I got there. Not perfect - I need to figure out a more efficient way of doing it. I suspect
just not putting in groves when filing would be a great help. Something to remember for next time. At this point, 
it needs to go in for the heat treat to turn that soft metal **hard**. Which is best done at night, so you can see 
the flow of the metal easier. Which meant it was of course time to feed the fluffball.

{% include image.html url="kitty1.jpg"  %}

So, 9pm at night, gas forge has been spluttering along (I need to figure out why it splutters though,
that's been worrying me), and the blank is *hot*. Take it out, dunk it in oil, and realise
removing the scale means even more sanding. 

{% include image.html url="good6.jpg"  %}


I did it, slapped the wood scales on, pinned and epoxied them, and
after waiting the night for the epoxy to cure, cut out the handle profile.

{% include image.html url="good7.jpg"  %}

Then, back to sanding. This time only wood, thank goodness! Still, wish I had a belt grinder,
because this part took hours longer than it could have. But hey, eventually I got something I was happy with.

{% include image.html url="good8.jpg"  %}

Unfortunately I couldn't find any oil, and Bunning's was closed by then, but I found some old varnish that I 
threw on the handle. Note to self, never use varnish, it will get on your steel and never come off.  Still,
imperfect blade and imperfect handle, I don't think it's too bad for a first attempt. Hopefully the second attempt 
will be better.

{% include image.html url="good10.jpg"  %}


