---
layout: post
title:  "LINO19"
desc: "Representing Australia at the Lindau Nobel Laureates Meeting 2019"
date: 2019-07-20
categories: [blog]
tags: [science]
loc: 'blog/lindau/'
---

In the winter of 2019 I was one of the lucky students chosen to represent Australia and participate
in the 2019 Lindau Nobel Laureates Meeting. The topics of the year were awesome - cosmology, gravitational
waves and laser physics. What a lineup.

So here is the Australian contingent, in a very sunny lineup outside the meeting venue. We requested slight 
cloud cover. It was not supplied.

{% include image.html url="opening.jpg"  %}

Inside, the hall was amazing. Past initial kerfuffles with security (for example, having to wait half
an hour whilst people turned on their laptops to prove they were, you know, real) there was the most 
amazing sight I think I have ever seen.

Multiple baskets of buttered pretzels. Proper German pretzels, oh my goodness. I am never going to come public
with the actual number of pretezels that I ended up eating, because the number is higher than you think, regardless of 
your starting assumptions.

{% include image.html url="main.jpg"  %}

The schedule for Lindau was one of the most hectic I've ever seen, and all of us were left running from main talks, 
conference room talks, open forums, masterclasses and more - held not just at the Inselhalle but all over the island.

Of course, most of the memorable interactions are held over lunch or dinner - food being the key ingredient here. What
was supposed to be a quick question to Brian ended up being an hour long adventure when William Phillips 
joined the party and gave us all a highly entertaining story of his work measuring (defining) the fundamental constants. 
I even got a little business card with them all printed out on it. 

{% include image.html url="brianandwillphillips.jpg"  %}

But I think of all the interactions, the dinner with Brian Schmidt and Steven Chu was probably the highlight. 
No rigid structure, just good food and good stories from Steven. For those not too familiar, Steven Chu was awarded the 
Nobel Prize in Physics in 1997 for his work using lasers to cool and trap atoms. But of more interest to most of us
was the time he spent as United States Secretary of Energy under Obama. In particular, hearing about the BP oil disaster
from someone that was not just there, but intimately involved in the emergency response, capping the oil and the recovery
was fascinating. 

One thing Steven did that I find most remarkable has nothing to do with the  government position. It was how 
he went straight back to research, no issues. I wonder if that's helped by the Nobel Prize or not. I'll ask him
more about it next time we happen to bump into each other.

{% include image.html url="chu2.jpg"  %}

{% include image.html url="chu1.jpg"  %}


